The Haskell Educational Advancement Tool (HEAT) is a simple integrated development environment (IDE) for the Haskell programming language, designed for teaching. HEAT incorporates a code editor a console and a file explorer into a single user interface. HEAT is written in Java, and runs on all major platforms.

Visually impaired users have unique requirements with regard to software interfaces, which are not currently met by the HEAT program.  In this project we have designed and implemented a number of features intended to optimise HEAT for visually impaired users. In 'background research' we discuss the requirements of visually impaired users and how these requirements guided our feature design. The 'features' section outlines the implementation of the new features along with challenges encountered during this process, while the 'development process and plan section' outlines the development approaches used throughout the project including the involvement of the customer and the division of work amongst the development team. In the 'tools' section we detail the various development tools which were used on the project and how they supported the team’s work. In 'quality assurance' we discuss measures taken to maintain code quality along with the testing processes carried out by the team. Finally we conclude with general reflections upon the success of final version, the modifications, the challenges faced, and the systems/tools which were most useful in the development process. 
